federalist 17 the same subject continued
the insufficiency of the present
confederation to preserve the union
for the independent journal hamilton
to the people of the state of new york
an objection of a different nature from
which has been
stated and answered in my last address
may perhaps be likewise urged against
the principle of legislation for the
individual citizens of america
it may be said that it would tend to
render the government of the union
too powerful and to enable it to absorb
those residuary authorities which it
might be judged proper to leave with the
states for local purposes
allowing the utmost latitude to the love
of power which any reasonable man can
require
i confess i am at a loss to discover
what temptation the persons entrusted
with the administration of the general
government could ever feel to divest the
states of the authorities of that
description
the regulation of the mere domestic
police of a state appears to me to hold
out slender allurements to ambition
commerce finance negotiation and war
seem to comprehend all the objects which
have charms for minds governed by that
passion
and all the powers necessary to those
objects ought in the first instance to
be lodged in the national depository
the administration of private justice
between the citizens of the same state
the supervision of agriculture and of
other concerns of a similar nature
all those things in short which are
proper to be provided for by local
legislation
can never be desirable cares of a
general jurisdiction
it is therefore improbable that there
should exist a disposition in the
federal councils to usurp the powers
with which they are connected
because the attempt to exercise those
powers would be as troublesome as it
would be nugatory and the possession of
them for that reason would contribute
nothing to the dignity to the importance
or to the splendor of the national
government but let it be admitted for
argument's sake
that mere wantonness and lust of
domination would be sufficient to beget
that disposition
still it may be safely affirmed that the
sense of the constituent body of the
national representatives
or in other words the people of the
several states would control the
indulgence of so extravagant and
appetite
it will always be far more easy for the
state governments to encroach upon the
national authorities than for the
national government to encroach upon the
state authorities
the proof of this proposition turns upon
the greater degree of influence which
the state governments if they minister
their affairs with uprightness and
prudence
will generally possess over the people a
circumstance which at the same time
teaches us that there is an
inherent and intrinsic weakness in all
federal constitutions
and that too much pains cannot be taken
in their organization to give them all
the force which is compatible with the
principles of liberty
the superiority of influence in favor of
the particular governments would result
partly from the diffuse of construction
of the national government but chiefly
from the nature of the objects to which
the attention of the state
administrations would be directed
it is a known fact in human nature that
its affections are commonly weak in
proportion to the distance or
diffusiveness of the object
upon the same principle that a man is
more attached to his family than to his
neighborhood
to his neighborhood than to the
community at large the people of each
state would be apt to feel a stronger
bias towards their local governments
than towards the government of the union
unless the force of that principle
should be destroyed by a much better
administration of the latter
this strong propensity of the human
heart would find powerful auxiliaries in
the objects of state regulation
the variety of more minute interests
which will necessarily fall under the
superintendents of the local
administrations and which will form so
many rivulets of influence running
through every part of the society
cannot be particularized without
involving a detail too tedious and
uninteresting to compensate for the
instruction it might afford
there is one transcendent advantage
belonging to the province of the state
governments
which alone suffices to place the matter
in a clear and satisfactory light
i mean the ordinary administration of
criminal and civil justice
this of all concerns is the most
powerful most universal
and most attractive source of popular
obedience and attachment
it is that which being the immediate and
visible guardian of life and property
having its benefits and its terrors in
constant activity before the public eye
regulating all those personal interests
and concerns to which the sensibility of
individuals is more immediately awake
contributes more than any other
circumstance to impressing upon the
minds of the people
affection esteem and reverence towards
the government
this great cement of society which will
diffuse itself
almost wholly through the channels of
the particular governments independent
of all other causes of influence
would ensure them so decided an empire
over their respective citizens as to
render them at all times a complete
counterpoise
and not frequently dangerous rivals to
the power of the union
the operations of the national
government on the other hand
falling less immediately under the
observation of the mass of the citizens
the benefits derived from it will
chiefly be perceived and attended to by
speculative
men relating to more general interests
they will be less apt to come home to
the feelings of the people earned in
proportion
less likely to inspire a habitual sense
of obligation
and an active sentiment of attachment
the reasoning on this head has been
abundantly exemplified by the experience
of all federal constitutions with which
we are acquainted
and of all others which have borne the
least analogy to them
though the ancient feudal systems were
not strictly speaking confederacies
yet they partook of the nature of that
species of association
there was a common head chieftain or
sovereign whose authority extended over
the whole nation
and a number of subordinate vassals or
feudatories who had large portions of
land allotted to them and numerous
trains of inferior vassals or retainers
who occupied and cultivated that land
upon the tenure of fealty or obedience
to the persons of whom they held it
each principal vassal was a kind of
sovereign within his particular domain
the consequences of this situation were
a continual opposition to authority of
the sovereign
and frequent wars between the great
barons or chief feudatories themselves
the power of the head of the nation was
commonly too weak either to preserve the
public peace
or to protect the people against the
oppressions of their immediate lords
this period of european affairs is
emphatically styled by historians the
times of feudal anarchy
when the sovereign happened to be a man
of vigorous and war-like temper and of
superior abilities
he would acquire a personal weight of
influence which answered for the time
the purpose of a more regular authority
but in general the power of the barons
triumphed over that of the prince and in
many instances his dominion was entirely
thrown off and the great thiefs were
erected into
independent principalities or states in
those instances in which the monarch
finally prevailed over his vassals
his success was chiefly owing to the
tyranny of those vassals over their
dependence
the barons or nobles equally the enemies
of the sovereign and the oppressors of
the common people
were dreaded and detested by both till
mutual danger and mutual interest
affected a union between them
fatal to the power of the aristocracy
had the nobles by a conduct of clemency
and justice preserve the fidelity and
devotion of their retainers and
followers
the contests between them and the prince
must almost always have ended in their
favor
and in the abridgment or subversion of
the royal authority
this is not an assertion founded merely
in speculation or conjecture
among other illustrations of its truth
which might be cited scotland will
furnish a cogent example
the spirit of clanship which was at an
early day introduced into that kingdom
uniting the nobles in their dependence
by ties equivalent to those of kindred
rendered the aristocracy a constant
overmatch for the power of the monarch
till the incorporation with
england subdued its fierce and
ungovernable spirit and reduced it
within those rules of subordination
which a more rational and more energetic
system of civil polity had previously
established in the latter kingdom
the separate governments in a
confederacy may aptly be compared with
the feudal berenice with this advantage
in their favor
that from the reasons already explained
they will generally possess the
confidence and goodwill of the people
and with so important to support
will be able effectually to oppose all
encroachments of the national government
it will be well if they are not able to
counteract its legitimate and necessary
authority
the points of similitude consist in the
rival ship of power
application to both and in the
concentration of large portions of the
strength of the community into
particular deposits
in one case at the disposal of
individuals in the other case at the
disposal of political bodies
a concise review of the events that have
attended confederate governments will
further illustrate this important
doctrine
an inattention to which has been the
great source of our political mistakes
and has given our jealousy
a direction to the wrong side this
review shall form the subject of some
ensuing papers
publius